Modifying the Multipack Interface for use with the CoCo 3

All Multipack Interfaces, even those you purchase tommorrow, will require 
a modification in order to be used successfully with the full features of 
the CoCo 3. 

The problem, according to Radio Shack in their Technical Bulletin # CC-29 
is that the data buffer in the MultiPak enables I/O access in the address 
range of $FF40 through $FF9F.  Only the addresses $FF40 through $FF7F are 
required for Input/Output operations. 

The CoCo 3's GIME chip uses registers located in the address range $FF80 
through $FF9E, which the un-modified Multipak Interface allows to be in 
conflict with external devices. 

The modification to the Multipak disables this area in the Multipak's 
decoding, preventing the use of that address range. 

NOTE: This will effectively prevent your modified Multipak Interface from 
working properly with I/O devices (such as the Wordpak and Wordpak II) 
that use those address ranges - even if you are using it with a CoCo or 
CoCo II that does not have the address conflict. 

Radio Shack's products don't use this area, so they are correct when they 
say that the modification is fully compatible with the CoCo and CoCo II - 
what they don't say is that they can only guarentee that it remains 
compatible with products that are under their control (i.e. if they sell 
it, or designed it).  

IF you make this modification, please be aware of the above, and judge 
whether the loss of any I/O in the area $FF80-$FF9E will affect your 
operations significantly. 

           THERE ARE TWO DIFFERENT MODIFICATIONS !

There are two different Multipak Interfaces, electrically, and thus two 
different modifications. 

For catalog # 26-3024 (including the old grey Multipak, and the large 
white Multipak - be sure and CHECK (!) your catalog number before 
spending the money for the modification to make sure you order the right 
one !) - replace U8, the PAL, with: 

   Part # AXX-7123  "PAL Chip for 26-3024"   $7.50 + $1.50 if ordered
directly from Tandy National Parts (817 870-5662, 5663, 5664 or 5665),
orders accepted only with charge card.



For catalog #26-3124 (the smaller white Multipak), order:

   Part # AXX-7119 "Satellite Board for 26-3124" $6.51 + $1.50 if ordered
directly from Tandy National Parts (orders accepted with charge card 
only).


Note: the following installation instructions are provided as information
only, and the installer assumes all responsibility in dealing with this
modification.  If you are not absolutely sure you can do this 
modification, and can fix anything you accidently break, it is HIGHLY
suggested you instead take your Multipak Interface to Radio Shack and let 
them have the modification done by their service technicians.  The cost
should be somewhere around $30.

  1. Remove the MPI case
  2. Remove the three screws holding the logic board to the bottom case, 
  leaving the transformer connected.  Remove all the metal clips holding 
  the shield to the bottom of the PCB, noting their positions.  Remove 
  the shield.  This is to avoid melting through the shield insulation 
  while soldering.
  3. Cut the trace coming from pin 52 of IC6 that connects pin 52 of IC6 
  to pin 19 of IC1.
  4. Position the satellite board over IC6, components up, with the 7 
  wires facing towards the card edge.
  5. Connect the 3 yellow wires to IC4 pins 3,9, and 11.  Any order is 
  fine.
  6. Connect the white wire to IC6 pin 52, taking care not to short the 
  leads of IC6.
  7. Connect the blue wire to IC1 pin 19.
  8. Connect the black wire to IC5 pin 8.
  9. Connect the red wire to IC5 pin 16.
  10. Replace the shield and two of the logic board screws.. the one 
  nearest the power switch, and the one near the selector switch.
  11. Place the plastic spacer over the hole for the third screw. 
  Position the hole in the satellite board over the spacer with the 
  components up.  Insert the screw into the board and tighten.  The board 
  must be positioned parallel to the edge card connector so that it fits 
  into the channel between the cabinet top and the cartridge frame.  
  Replace the cabinent top.
  12. Test the unit by connecting it to a CoCo, installing a cartridge in 
  each slot, and checking to see that each slot is selectable and 
  accessable.




